It can feel overwhelming to
think about the future.
I don't have easy answers here.
I do know it is possible to
pick oneself up in most
situations
and where I imagine most people
are at is no exception.
That's easy to know in theory.
It's much harder
to know the steps to get there.
In 2018,
I was living through the worst
year of my life,
world shattered around me.
I tried a lot of things to get
out of that dark place,
but ultimately there wasn't any
single solution
given the complexity that life
is often
made up of.
In some ways,
I'm still working on getting
better.
And though this year has
actually been pretty good for
my own personal healing,
I still remember what it was
like back then,
constantly looking toward the
future,
dwelling in what I had lost,
and feeling afraid
that I wouldn't be able to make
it back.
During whatever period one
might call normal
the usual things that come to
mind when looking toward the
future are pretty big.
It can be tempting to follow
those same familiar scripts,
even when the world shifted.
What career shifts will I make?
What
are the next steps to
accomplish my goals?
How can I have an impact?
But, if you're like me,
when you don't have a stable
foundation, those can feel so
overwhelming and detached from
the current reality that you
feel lost.
The thing is, realistically,
all of that big picture stuff
takes a thousand little things
to even work.
If you have grand goals, those
little things might seem
inconsequential by comparison.
You might not even notice how
important they are, how they
support you.
But these steps matter to
building a better future,
because maybe you can't change
the world in one night.
Keeping in touch with friends,
getting good sleep,
eating well, or
you know, whatever well means
for you,
taking vitamin D, and watering
your plants.
Maybe you set aside some time
to care for the people
you love, to get to sleep a bit
earlier, or to finally write
that post that you were hoping
to all those months ago.
All these little things can
work towards stability and
strength.
For me, at least, that was
crucial.
I had to take several steps
back and take a break
and work on the smaller things.
And it took far longer than I'd
like to admit to realize that.
I'd work that I wish
that I'd figured out how to feel
okay, focusing on the little
things sooner.
Such that brighter futures
seemed more possible.
So
while I can't give an exact
roadmap,
here's a suggestion if you're
struggling:
it's okay to focus on the now,
on a smaller scope of what you
can do and what you can control.
You can think about yourself,
you can think about your
friends,
your family,
your loved ones.
You can think about this next
minute,
this next day,
this next week.
Think about the smaller things
that bring you light.
Now,
looking around,
even through the limited
interface,
I can see a lot of people in
this room.
Some of us know each other
pretty well.
Others,
maybe not so much.
But regardless of how we got
here,
we are all here,
together,
celebrating the longest night
of the year.
There's a lot of light here.
That's pretty special.
Remember that.
And remember that many of your
peers here are fighting for
brighter futures, too.
There are futures that are
worth protecting.
And it's worth taking those
little steps to get to them
be those steps taken alone or
together.
So even if the light at the end
of the tunnel seems dim from
where you are,
100 line:1
remember that there is still a
light somewhere.
101 line:1
Remember that you are not alone
102 line:1
in this fight.
103 line:1
Though we can't be together
physically,
104 line:1
or working on the same things
in each moment,
105 line:1
we can at least be together in
spirit.
106 line:1
To borrow from another Solstice
speech,
107 line:1
we are each a part of the story
of humanity.
108 line:1
Our pursuit of truth, our
pursuit of meaning, and our
109 line:1
pursuit of happiness,
110 line:1
in some ways
111 line:1
they are incredibly fragile.
112 line:1
But compared to any one of us,
113 line:1
they are incredibly difficult
to extinguish.
114 line:1
We, the people here tonight,
and the people on this planet,
115 line:1
we have the power to shape our
stories,
116 line:1
to bring light to their
darkness,
117 line:1
and to guide them into the
future.
118 line:1
Together,
119 line:1
we can bring light.
120 line:1
We will find a way through this.